---
title: Welcome!
---
Welcome to this blog!

This blog was created to document the progress and process of the build of my 1303RS.
It will contain both progress reports as well as the decisions made and the reasons for making these decisions.

### Why the name 1303RS?
The name of this website “1303RS” is a concatenation of the words 1303 and RS. For the people wondering what these words mean:

A [1303](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Volkswagen_Beetle#1970%E2%80%931979_models) is a type of VW Beetle, usually called a Super Beetle. It has a curved windshield and uses a MacPherson strut type front suspension instead of the torsion bar based dual trailing arm suspension of the regular Beetles .The 1303 I am using for this project is a 1303S from 1975. The added S means it has a 1600cc engine instead of the stock 1300cc or 1200cc engine and front disc brakes instead of drum brakes. Additionally, only the Super Beetles from 1975 have a rack & pinion steering rack, improving the steering and handling of the car considerably.

My 1303S in it's stock form
{% include image name="1303RS-1.jpg" description="My 1303S in it's stock form" %}

RS stands for RennSport, which is German and translates loosely to motorsport. This abbreviation was and is used (among others) by Porsche for the cars they produce as a homologated (read: road-legal) car which serves as the starting point for their race cars. This is exactly the type of car I want to create from my 1303.

### Goals for the project
The current goal of the project is to achieve at least a time of 2:15 on the Zandvoort racetrack. 2:15 is the fastest laptime (give or take a few ms) that I know of that has been achieved by a street-legal VW beetle on Zandvoort. This time was set by Walter (also knows as Airspeed or Wally) in October of 2007 with his very nice 1975 1303 with a 2,7L type4.

The [HARC](http://www.harc.nl) (Historische Automobiel Ren Club/Historic Car Race Club) organizes up to 8 track-days a year on the Zandvoort Racetrack for classic/historic cars. This and the fact that I live quiet close to it make Zandvoort the ideal racetrack for me.

Although the car should perform very well on the track it is still meant to be driven to the track and back as well as be usable for longer rides to get to meetings, track- and dyno-days. It'll be interesting to optimize the car for track use whilst trying to keeping somewhat usable on the road.
